there's an old quote from Marcus
Aurelius I may be misusing the quote I
may be overusing the quote but I'm using
it um Marcus Aurelius says that when
we're engaged in debates about
philosophy we are not competing for a
prize of an ordinary kind we're
competing for whether we are to be sane
or insane
and I do think it's meaningful to engage
in debates of a political philosophy
within veganism in part because we're
really questioning whether or not our
beliefs whether or not the systems of
thought were espousing whether or not
the lines of reasoning we're presenting
people with make us appear to be insane
or insane in terms how others perceive
us and also frankly whether or not were
presenting a system of values within
which we might drive ourselves insane
are we advancing arguments that are so
incoherent so self contradictory that we
might if we're really being honest be
driving ourselves crazy with them and
both in private and in public those are
questions a lot of vegans ask themselves
especially if they dig in deeply to any
one particular issue and the thing is
you've got to remember that black people
and women used to be oppressed like we
oppress animals today they used to be
viewed as less than and that's exactly
how we view animals we view them is less
than humans like we used to be black
people as less than white people or
women less than men it's the same idea
and it's very very convenient to be the
oppressor and to judge those who is
speaking on behalf of the victims
because you're the oppressor and you
like the position you're in you're in
the position of privilege in the
position of power so when people try and
take that away for you by saying hang on
maybe not as important as you first
thought you were I think the most
fundamental part of earthling edge
approach is what he says second not
first year where he suggests that the
objectives of veganism are to eliminate
any barrier of more than versus less
than in the relations of human versus
animals and I actually object to that I
I don't accept his assumptions here I
don't accept the logic of his argument I
don't think this is a meaningful way to
present veganism to outsiders I don't
think it's a meaningful way to practice
veganism
life if you really say that you want to
eliminate the distinction of better than
and less than that separates humans from
animals what does that mean for the
cockroaches in your life what does that
mean for the bedbugs that may invest
your apartment
what does that mean for bees and
mosquitoes guys what does it mean for
chickens whether you're talking about
chickens that are on a farm or chickens
that are in a sanctuary or chickens that
are actually living in the wilderness in
the wild what I want for chickens cows
and pigs whether they're currently in
cages currently in sanctuaries or
actually living in the wild
talking about pigs as wild boars if
they've actually living that quality of
life living a life with dignity and a
death with dignity out in the wilderness
not as human pets not as human
playthings but its independent from
human beings I can describe that in
terms of their independence from people
and I can also describe it in terms of
their dependence upon us because whether
animals on a farm in a sanctuary or in
the wilderness the reality is they rely
on human beings whether it's the human
beings that are literally feeding them
you know on a sanctuary feeding them
providing them with veterinary care and
so on or if it's just the human beings
who organize and manage the wildlife
preservation area the National Park
whatever it might be where these animals
are living it's fundamentally absurd and
incoherent for earthling yet to describe
the objectives of the vegan movement in
terms of eliminating any barrier of less
than that's his his word that's not my
objective in the vegan moment my
objectives are attainable my objectives
are neither equal rights for animals nor
equal opportunity freezing this in terms
of privilege and power eliminating
unequal privilege and power are you
really claiming that there's going to
come a day in the future when human
beings do not have privilege
/ cockroaches when human beings do not
have privilege and power over bears in
the wild or pigs in any of those three
phases pigs on a farm pigs in a
sanctuary pigs in the wilderness you
really think you can eliminate the
distinction of privilege and power
between a human being and a wild boar or
air or a human being and a pig that you
may have rescued from a farm but is now
dependent on human care in a sanctuary
to live out its last days because some
of the Yun's manage to take it away from
a slaughterhouse which happens really
you think the objective of what we're
doing here this whole movement or the
particular people running that sanctuary
or the people who are working and
managing and operating a National Park
Conservation Area you think any of them
are working towards eliminating the
human privilege human privilege no no
this is about human beings making better
use of the privilege and power that they
have and a privilege and power that we
are always going to have an absolute
inequality and yes an absolute
responsibility the human beings have
towards animals and that I think human
beings have towards ecosystems towards
the wilderness as a concept that that's
something we do in effect have to
preserve and have to manage but
ineluctably we're going to be managing
those things for our own benefit even if
we are also doing them in order to you
know keep biodiversity alive so that
animals can enjoy their own lives to
some extent independently in the wild
ultimately there are human values that
we're imposing on animals it's not a
question of the animals having any
honorable equal rights that we have to
just let them exercise if you let a pig
out of the slaughterhouse what are the
rights that Pig can exercise on its own
the answer is none the pig goes from one
situation of total dependency on human
beings to another situation of total
dependency on human beings the question
is whether the human beings are using
their power and privilege to exploit and
kill that pig of
profit or for some other better goal
whether it's a wild boar in the forest
or a pig being helped on a sanctuary
recites poppy would you be interested in
taking a flyer it's about your jacket
because you may not be aware but it uses
dog fur on the trim so the trim comes
from a coyote which comes from a species
of dog and what happens they get caught
in these leg-hold traps and sometimes
they're in there for about 72 hours
before the hunter comes to get them but
a lot of these coyotes and mothers so
what happens is their cubs are left
alone at home and they either get killed
by predators or they starve to death
okay are you aware that the fur trimmer
your coats real dog fur did you ask that
permission of the coyote if you could
kill it tell me about what can what
about the animal why do you tell her
where I can where know what I can't none
of your what about the animal though is
it the basis of the animal are we
advancing arguments that are so
incoherent that we might if we're really
being honest be driving ourselves crazy
with them look at for example the
abolitionist arguments against single
issue causes so in this video I'm
debating with a guy named earthling ed
and he's aware of the critique of his
position come from the abolitionists the
abolitionists claim that it's really in
particular try to encourage people to
stop wearing fur coats and they have
this very complex into my mind somewhat
incoherent and a rational argument as to
why addressing any single issue cause
such as fur actually it's very negative
for veganism as a movement on the whole
and I've I should have seen Ed's
response to that and I think Ed's
response is quite meaningful and you
know uh well in tension I think he does
address that quite well among other
things ed just says that actually
protesting against fur it's related to
veganism but it's not the same as
veganism and you have to evaluate in a
separate way I think it's a very
intelligent set of reasons he sets out
for why he personally engages in
protests against fur while also being a
part of the vegan movement but that
position the abolitionist position that
opposes all single-issue causes I've
made videos really raising the question
what if we
we believe this if we really espouse
this and we really live by it is this
singing or insane why would it be vegan
to oppose saving a particular species of
dolphins in a particular River that's a
single issue cause the abolitionists if
they really believe what they're
preaching they would have to say no no
no you're assuming that dolphins are
cute and therefore they ought to have
more rights or more attention for human
beings this is a form of implicit
speciesism and you're only affirming
oppression blah blah blah the
abolitionists the same way they oppose
anti-fur protests would oppose a
positive ecological charity organization
trying to save a particular species of
dolphin in a particular River trying to
save them from extinction
because they're opposed to all single
issue causes and that is to my mind
crazy and broadly speaking this is one
of the reasons why I engage in critique
of this kind meaningful discussion of
political philosophy within veganism for
one thing in general steel sharpens
steel we all become sharper by engaging
in these kinds of examinations of what
we believe why we believe it etc and
also I think there really is this
meaningful question of have we let
incoherent and contradictory assumptions
creep into our line of thinking that
might in fact bring us closer to
insanity than sanity even though we are
all supporting and pursuing this good
cause that everyone watching this video
probably agrees is a good cause veganism
as an end goal the vegan society a vegan
world how everyone to think of it or
just a handful of individuals becoming
vegan one at a time and supporting
positive political and social change and
yet it's so easy it's so easy it's so
easy for a popular term like social
justice to creep its way into the
discourse and actually really distort
how we think about veganism how we
present veganism
how we pursue and prepare veganism so
earthling ed has a video in which he
addresses the
misconception that vegans are forcing
their beliefs on others whether or not
it's a misconception is defeatable hey
guys so I just wanted to a quick video
today discussing the idea of forcing
beliefs as vegans were always talked
about pushing our beliefs onto others
and I'm not really sure if it's a
criticism at all and I think a good
place to start with this is to view
social justice movements in the past if
we look at the black rights movement
they force their beliefs of equality
onto racists and if we look at the
suffragettes movement on the feminist
movement they force their views of
gender equality on misogynists so to
claim that it's negative to force your
beliefs onto others is incredibly
misguided because if social justice
movements did not do this if they didn't
make their needs heard or their beliefs
heard then they would never achieve
their goals it's by forcing your views
on others that real social change can be
enacted because if you didn't do so then
nothing would ever change
right off the bat earthling ed is
assuming that veganism is a social
justice movement I have a video that is
simply titled veganism is not a social
justice movement so that is not an
assumption I share with him I would
challenge that assumption and I have
challenged in the past but on the basis
of this assumption
edie then answers the objection that
vegans force their beliefs and others by
claiming that vegans only do so in the
same sense in which any and every social
justice movement must do so and he gives
what he thinks are flattering examples
of the struggle for black rights ie
equal rights for black people really
meaning African American in the United
States and at least talking about South
Africa maybe is but this sounds like
he's alluding to the history of United
States of America and equal rights for
women women's equality now already we
have as you a very fundamental problem
here which is the failure to recognize
the meaning of the term social justice
social justice means distributive
justice and actually the history of the
struggle for black rights United States
did not aim at distributive justice or
redistribute it did not name at social
justice and it also did not achieve
social justice this video would be even
longer than it already is if I dealt
more deeply with the
definition of social justice it is true
that social justice is more specific
than distributive justice or
redistribute justice most people
complain that the term is still not
specific enough however if you had a
social movement that was for example
aimed at taking away a land from men and
giving it to women redistributing land
ownership that might be described as a
social justice movement for women as
trying to achieve social justice women
that women ought to own as much land as
men it should be very obvious to you
that equal opportunity for women the
equal right to vote for women or equal
access to education for men those things
are not social justice issues by the
strict definition of the term black
rights the United States of America
tried to achieve equal opportunity and
of all the paradigms to compare to
veganism Equal Opportunity is especially
difficult to relate to the conditions of
animals especially talking about factory
farming so the main thing we're talking
about here it's also completely
meaningless to try to apply the concept
of equal opportunity to animals living
in the wild in a national park in a
habitat conservation area
what does equal opportunity mean to a
bear in the forest or to a cow living in
a concrete shed it means nothing it's
completely meaningless and there are
some people including a Friedrich von
Hayek
who would claim that social justice
itself is a meaningless concept it's
interesting debate to have I don't think
it's meaningless I think we have to
recognize its particular and specific
meaning and in the same sense that equal
opportunity it's just a concept that
doesn't apply to animals in these cases
in the same way we have to recognize
that social justice doesn't apply to
animals in these ways the people who
support domesticated pets and who care a
lot about legal rights for dogs and cats
that's a movement within veganism we
don't talk about that much of this
channel it's called the citizenship
approach so for example those people
want to see laws passed
so that if a poor family owns a dog or
cat and they can't afford surgery then
the government will in effect provide
health care for this dog or pet so that
they don't have to just kill the animal
going to put it down they feel it's
against the rights the animal to just be
killed for the convenience of the family
that owns the pet or to be killed
because of the poverty of the family
that owns the pet so it's a very
straightforward concept but nevertheless
we can't actually describe this in terms
of equal opportunity or social justice
it's not social justice for a dog or a
cat that has had its testicles chopped
off may have had its hapless sorry its
claws pulled out of its palms may have
had its teeth removed may have had all
these surgical modifications made to its
body so that it just lives like a toy
for human entertainment there's no
there's no sense of social justice and
then providing that animal with yet more
surgeries to extend the animal's life
extend its status of perpetual
dependency living on this family's
carpet that's not equality that's not
equal opportunity it's not social
justice and it may nevertheless be a
question worth asking if poor people own
dogs and cats and then those dogs and
cats need expensive surgeries legally
what is the responsibility of the
taxpayer you tell me so it is not so
easy to invoke the name of black rights
civil rights for African Americans and
to say well they force their beliefs on
others is exactly what earthling had
claims here therefore it's okay for
vegans to to force diplomas it's
actually tremendously meaningful to
recognize that the time of the nine
States of America in the United States
the government did not force these
beliefs on others it remained your civil
right in the United States to believe
whatever you want to believe those
movements did not seek to create
uniformity of belief in America and they
did not even seek to deprive for example
a Christian preacher of the freedom to
save racist things which they continued
saying there are still to this day white
churches in America
that preach against black people and
there are although more rarely you can
see examples of racist black churches
that preach against white people in
America and preach that white people a
devil they very much have freedom of
expression to voice those opinions
freedom of belief and even the freedom
to organize those racist views into
formal churches and political parties so
again
earthling ed is British he may not
understand this he may not appreciate
the significance of this but the civil
rights movement black rights equal
rights for African Americans never aimed
at forcing their beliefs and others and
the United States because their
constitutional tradition it actually
very much
preserved the freedom of belief for
people still to this day in the United
States it is legal to have a whites-only
church or a blacks only church and you
can see that all over America and the
things that the preachers are preaching
inside those churches whether they're
Christian or some other religion or
they're a new-age cult or what-have-you
may indeed be racist they have freedom
of opinion which includes freedom of
racism and freedom of belief okay so
black rights did not try to change
people's beliefs they tried to change
government policy what are those policy
changes aimed at they're aimed at equal
opportunity so what really mattered for
civil rights the United States for
example yes there's an obvious question
can black people actually vote and there
were a number of hurdles and obstacles
and changes that to be made because in
many parts United States
in theory black people had the right to
vote vote but in practice they couldn't
really make it happen there have been
unfair obstacles created they're
exercising that right but much trickier
were things like looking at did black
people and white people actually have an
equal ability to get a bank loan in
order to buy a house or to build a new
house how do you legislate racism out of
the banking system so that people truly
have equal opportunity how do you
legislate racism out of the hiring
process at large institutions so that
black people white peope
truly of equal opportunity how do you
amend and revise an education system
which in the United States had been
built on segregation had been built on
elitism including openly a racist
elitism how do you change that education
system so that black people and white
people have equal opportunity the
results were imperfect but they were
dramatically better in the 1990s than
they were in the 1940s tremendous change
not aimed at forcing beliefs is not
about belief it was about equal
opportunity and if you're really honest
with yourself and you really care about
being consistent just think open to the
meaning of these words and what they
would mean your own life if you believed
in them and practice them consistently I
think you have to admit to yourself that
equal opportunity is completely
meaningless in reference to a pig that's
awaiting slaughter in a slaughterhouse
if we rescue that Pig we can't grant an
equal opportunity we can't grant granted
equal rights the best thing we can
probably do for that pig right now in
2017 is either put it in a sanctuary or
try to rehabilitate it to some extent
and introduce it back into the wild if
that pig can to some extent it enjoy its
life as a wild boar would if it can be
rehabilitated trying to have some kind
of positive life but no matter which way
you look at it the pig that's eaten all
its food out of a human hand is not in a
position to exercise equal rights it's
meaningless it's meaningless whether
we're talking about the wilderness or
we're talking about a farm or we're
talking about pets
living the whole lives in the rock there
are plenty of positive things about
earthling ed his approach to activism
and his YouTube channel and above all
else he does have the redeeming quality
of keeping it real because he's honest
with his audience he's honest about the
shortcomings of his approach to activism
he's honest developed when it goes wrong
when it just doesn't accomplish much
when he has these conversations with
strangers don't really go anywhere I
think we all can kind of learn from his
experience and learn from his mistakes
as they unfold on screen
he has been doing this for about a year
and a half his current approach to
veganism and I think he probably will
adapt and take on new methods new angles
in the years ahead
so for all that I kind of congratulate
him and I appreciate him and I wish him
the best and I think whether viewers are
just looking at as entertainment or
really looking at it and questioning in
their own lives what they can do what is
effective active doesn't mean to them a
lot more good comes out of it than harm
well that hadn't been said I really do
find that watching his videos is yet
another reminder how some of these
simple assumptions can lead to false and
counterproductive and even insane
beliefs within veganism it may seem so
simple and so appealing to argue that
the objective of veganism is a crusade
against privilege but it's not it does
not make sense to present or pursue
veganism as the abolition of human
privilege that is simply insane human
beings are now privileged when contrast
to a bear in the wild I want us to use
that privilege to have practices of
wildlife habitat management conservation
that respect the Bears their dignity in
life and their dignity in death
and prevent them from going extinct that
manage their numbers when they get too
low or and it gets you high over
population under population if there's a
plague that breaks out in the forest I
do not see any sense in which I can
imagine the future of this planet as one
in which human beings have no privilege
when they're compared to bears or no
privilege when they're compared to cows
or no privilege when they're compared to
pigs let alone cockroaches mosquitoes
and bedbugs that is simply crazy and
thinking of our objectives that way
thinking of our means that way and then
offering it as a justification for the
shortcomings in our approaches when
people say well aren't you
imposing your beliefs on others I don't
think it's a meaningful or rational or
fair comeback to say well we're a social
justice movement and it's partly because
I don't believe that we are if you sit
down and really think in a meaningful
way about what social justice means what
it means for us and what it would mean
for the animals and apart from that it's
not really sincerely grappling with the
issue Earthling ad choses flattering
examples he says what about black rights
civil rights women's rights well what
about the history of the Catholic Church
what about the history of Islam what
about the history of forcing your
beliefs on others conversion by the
sword
what about really examining what people
mean when they talk about forcing your
beliefs and others and why it is such a
dangerous thing in human political
history whether we're talking about
communism or conservative Islam across
the board why don't we take that
seriously why don't we show us sincere
interest in examining what's wrong in
our own movements and learning from the
history of other movements instead of
dismissing it with this sort of cynical
ploy of saying well what about women's
rights what about black rights struggles
that we are ourselves I think Edie we
can say we are ourselves not experts in
that we're not sincerely examining in
terms of the very little bit they have
in common with veganism and how much
they don't have in common veganism
ultimately emancipation of black people
United States relied on a civil war and
nobody in veganism is talking about how
to sell war the differences are much
more meaningful and of a great much
greater magnitude than the similarities
but a simple subtle idea of this kind
social justice inserts itself early on
into how we think about veganism and
then it leads to conclusions that
veganism is somehow an attempt to get
rid of the distinctions of greater than
and less than
that it's a mission to abolish privilege
and that human beings is Ed says himself
he claims the humans feel guilty because
they're in this position of power and
privilege that must end and the power
and privilege we have over animals is
never gonna end
and you and I as vegans are never gonna
stop eating bread and beans vegetables
that are produced if we're keeping it
all the way real every day by killing
animals Gophers groundhogs there's a
huge array of insect and mammal life
that we kill every day whether it's on a
fruit farm on a wheat farm or on a bean
farm or what have you
if we really believe that the vegan
movement was as you described it an
attempt to abolish the privilege the
superiority that human beings exercised
of our animals I think we would be
insane and on the contrary if we look at
it as a more responsible use of that
power of privilege of facing up to the
moral responsibility that's incumbent on
us to do the best we can with that
privilege and to stop thinking in terms
of short-term self gratification or just
clinging on to really a bunch of
cultural customs that are now obsolete
then how we think about veganism how we
practice it in our own lives changes how
we present it to others changes and yeah
I think in a really meaningful sense the
future of the movement changes to the
new Yin